**DRAFT** This is a working document of how we think things might work going forward. Nothing has been finalized.

# Intro

The "Perl Steering Committee" is responsible for the Design & implementation of the Perl programming language

# Governance

Leader: ðŸ¥‡[Sawyer](https://github.com/xsawyerx)

Deputy: ðŸ¥ˆ[Todd Rinaldo](https://github.com/toddr) (ONLY an provisional replacement in an unexpected absence)

# Responsibilities:
This group is the authority and reponsible for:
- Being the custodian of the official Perl release
    - Owner of the [PERL pause account](https://metacpan.org/author/PERL)
    - Owner of the [Perl repo](https://github.com/perl/perl5) (to be renamed)
    - Owner of [metaconfig](https://github.com/Perl/metaconfig)
    - Responsible for security and maintenance releases.
- Design
- Development
- Decisions,
- Experiment, research
- Release
- Roadmap
- Perl core

# Not responsible for
- CPAN

# Membership

To add: Three supporters, no objections carried - same as set up for Perl 4

Ways someone might exit the group:

- Request to exit
- Default expiry one year for inactivity
- Vote out

# Member responsibilities:

The primary purpose of members is to: 
- Work out the 'how' together
- Design & technology authority

Other responsibilities
- Public support of the group and members
- Actively support the leadership
- Find effective ways to communicate with peers
- Understand the meeting etiquette

# Current Perl Steering Committee members

- [Sawyer](https://github.com/xsawyerx)
- [Paul Evans](https://github.com/leonerd)
- [Todd Rinaldo](https://github.com/toddr)
- [H.Merijn Brand](https://github.com/Tux)
- [James Keenan](https://github.com/jkeenan)
- [Karl Williamson](https://github.com/khwilliamson)
- [Nicolas Rochelemagne](https://github.com/atoomic)
- [John Lightsey](https://github.com/lightsey)
- [Ricardo Signes](https://github.com/rjbs)
- [Dagfinn Ilmari MannsÃ¥ker](https://github.com/ilmari)
- [Tony Cook](https://github.com/tonycoz)
- Yves Orton
- Leon Timmermans
- Dave Mitchell
- Aaron Crane
- Hugo van der Sanden
- Steve Hay

# Past Meeting Notes
- [[SC Notes 2020-07-12]]
- [[SC Notes 2020-07-14]]
- [[SC Notes 2020-07-21]]