# Perl Steering Committee (PSC) Meeting

## Arrangements

- Time: 2020-08-04 13:00 GMT 
- Location: Web (Jitsi)
- Invitees:
    - Perl Steering Committee members
    - #toolchain

## Attendees
- [Tony Cook](https://github.com/tonycoz) (TonyC)
- [Paul Evans](https://github.com/leonerd) (LeoNerd)
- [Karl Williamson](https://github.com/khwilliamson) (khw)
- [Todd Rinaldo](https://github.com/toddr) (toddr)
- [James Keenan](https://github.com/jkeenan) (kid51)
- [H.Merijn Brand](https://github.com/Tux) (Tux)
- [Sawyer](https://github.com/xsawyerx) (xsawyerx)
- [John Lightsey](https://github.com/lightsey) (JD)
- [Nicolas R.](https://github.com/atoomic) (atoomic)
- [Ricardo S.](https://github.com/rjbs) (rjbs)

## Meeting notes

- #toolchain was invited to the call.
    - Invitation was accepted by one person who wanted to join but eventually could not attend.
- Recording meetings
    - Mithaldu and other #toolchain members have requested recording these meetings.
        - They feel the meeting notes are insufficient.
    - Response:
        - The group feels this is a trust issue and recording will not help. 
            - Participants felt confident that their positions are expressed well in the notes.
            - Participants expressed they wouldn't feel comfortable being recorded.
        - No other "private" meeting has been recorded including...
            - The Perl 5 Core Summits, originally known as Perl 5 Hack (p5h).
            - The Toolchain Summits, originally known as QA Hackathon.
            - Ad-hoc meetings at conferences.
            - Direct messages on IRC
            - Email threads between contributors not on a particular list.
        - The point of the calls is to accelerate discussion and then take those to existing channels.
            - This is just the online extension of the Perl 5 Core Summits.
            - We are coming to consensus on the call and then going to the mailing list for discussion.
            - The agreement so far is that no decision can be made without discussion outside the meetings.
    - We will seek out additional feedback on how to make the notes more encompassing of the discussion - what do people feel is truly missing?
- Uncertainty about what is going on.
    - There is a LOT of misinformation going on about the current plan.
    - Examples of misunderstandings:
        - 7.0.0 is going out on August 20th.
        - 7.0.0 will include additional development or fixes.
        - 7.0.0 will block the existing production release schedule (5.34.0 will not be possible).
        - 7.x will have whatever feature they disagree with (and that this had already been decided).
    - We hope to address these with further communication on the Perl 5 Porters mailing list.
- Many people have an issue with Sawyer's email to the list explaining involvement of the Porters list.
    - Some people got the impression that only the opinion of "developers" matters.
    - It expressed a notion that the Porters list is not an important or valuable avenue of discussion on the language.
    - We all agreed this needs to be rectified.
    - Sawyer will seek additional feedback on the issues with his email in order to help correct the bad communication made.
- Discuss version bump for 7.1.0
    - https://github.com/Perl/perl5/pull/18020
    - Tux: -Dinc_version_list might lead to not sharing installed modules between previous versions of the language
        - The version bump is meant to not change this behavior. This sounds like a new item for change?
    - Someone suggested that we wait with the bump to 7.1.0 in blead
        - No one at the meeting strongly opposed to keeping blead on 5.33.x.
    - The meeting was at its limit and we were not able to complete this conversation.
