# Meeting Overview

## Details
- Location: Zoom
- When: Sunday July 12 2020 at 13:00 UTC

## Attendees

- [Sawyer](https://github.com/xsawyerx)
- [James Keenan](https://github.com/jkeenan)
- [Todd Rinaldo](https://github.com/toddr)
- [H.Merijn Brand](https://github.com/Tux)
- [Karl Williamson](https://github.com/khwilliamson)
- [Paul Evans](https://github.com/leonerd)
- [Nicolas R.](https://github.com/atoomic)
- [Stuart Mackintosh](https://github.com/StuartJMackintosh)

# Meeting notes

## Meeting objectives

- Validate leadership
- Decide our governance process
- Conclusions - what decisons need to be made so that we can move on
- Next agenda 

- What do we as a team want to make happen? 
- what are our desired outcomes?

## What do we want?

### Sawyer

- Have confidence in the plan / leadership so we can progress
    - Doesn't feel that this group has mandate
- We are sharing conflicting messages

### Karl (khw)

- Confidence in Sawyer's leadership
- Decision on the 'how'
- Decision on getting Bleed re-opened

### Paul (LeoNerd)

- Clarification on behalf of Dave
- Group consensus / knowing what the agreed positions are and who holds them
    - who needs the debates on positions
- Issues with the mechanisms for discussion
- Would like more transparencies - community deserves to see what we are saying
- Can we share these minutes?


### H.Merijn Brand (Tux)

- No conflict - clear on objectives
- Plan as to who will do what

### James (kid51)

- List of paths of experimentation for v7
    - Help others get involved and share the experience


### Nico (atoomic)

- List the different options, enable discussion
- Who has what authority to make decisions
    - How can a decision be made?

### Todd Rinaldo (toddr)

- Decide how we decide (governance) - it is nebulous
- Determine how we decide what to do if key players are unavailable to participate.
- Determine our values/goals for Perl 7
    - Where do we want to see Perl in 5 years

## Our questions

- How do we make decisions? How can we have mandate, governance
    - Who else may assert

- Ways of working on Perl 7

- How do we mange distributions
- Is /usr/bin/perl7 a fork
    - A fork is when 2 groups go off and develop at the same time.
    - It's a major version bump. The plan is to stop developing Perl 5

- Conflict between stability and progress
    - How?
- What is our seccession (voluntary or by bus)
- Can we make this meeting / outcomes public?
- Consider Dave's points (Paul)
- External stakeholders to engage with - how?
    - Gather input for key Perl users
    - Engage with significant developers, influencers

- Can we rename the `github/perl5` repo to `github/perl`? If so when? (Nicolas)

- Clarify the communication tools and channels


## Answers

### Governance

Leader: ðŸ¥‡[Sawyer](https://github.com/xsawyerx)

Deputy: ðŸ¥ˆ[Todd Rinaldo](https://github.com/toddr) (only an interim replacement)

- Steering committee
    - Design & implementation of the Perl programming language

- This group is the authority and reponsible for:
    - Being the custodian of the official Perl release
        - Owner of the [PERL pause account](https://metacpan.org/author/PERL)
        - Owner of the [Perl repo](https://github.com/perl/perl5) (to be renamed)
        - Owner of [metaconfig](https://github.com/Perl/metaconfig)
        - Responsible for security and maintenance releases.
    - Design
    - Development
    - Decisions,
    - Experiment, research
    - Release
    - Roadmap
    - Perl core
- Out of scope
    - CPAN
- What is the process to add / remove members?
    - Three supporters, no objections carried - as set up for Perl 4
    - Remove members
        - Request to exit
        - Default expiry one year for inactivity
        - Vote out
- Purpose: Work out the 'how' together
    - Design & technology authority
- Responsibilities
    - Public support of the group and members
    - Actively support the leadership
    - Find effective ways to communicate with peers
    - Understand the meeting etiquette

### The Perl Steering Committee members

- Sawyer
- Paul Evans
- Todd Rinaldo
- H.Merijn Brand
- James E Keenan
- Karl Williamson
- Nicolas Rochelemagne
- Yves Orton
- Leon Timmermans
- Dave Mitchell
- Aaron Crane
- Dagfinn Ilmari MannsÃ¥ker
- Hugo van der Sanden
- Tony Cook
- Steve Hay

## What do the committee want to make happen?

### Paul

- Feature parity
- Bring language up to date

### Tux

- Perl - the favorite language of everybody again

### James

- Same as Tux
- Make the perl core test suite perl 7 compliant

### Todd

- See 7.0.0 released
    - define a plan
    - Move the language forward
- Start making 8 awesome as 7.1.x

### Sawyer

- Get Perl out of stagnation
- Make it easier to add the features as default
- Better documentation
- Make it the language I want to write in

### Karl

- Get clarity in the short term
- Development process
- Make decisions around 7

### Nicolas

- Get 7.0
- Get the energy to move forward
- Avoid getting stuck

## Committee viewpoints on Perl 7

See also [[Perceived Positions on Perl 7]] where we are attempting to 

### Tux (H. Merijn Brand)

- The proposal from Sawyer (the original proposal?) is the only option.
- No energy/time to make it happen, but very willing to help
- Not everything will break
    - Tested with new Perl 7 candidates
    - Differences not that much
    - Most of CPAN will work, edge case isues

### James

- Supports Sawyer's vision
- New code should be Perl 7 by default
- Should not promise interop, but should provide a lot of interop
- The people doing the work get to decide the how
- Progress being made toward a version of Perl 7 with Nicolas
- Would benefit from volunteer developers (who are subscribed to the vision)
- Ideas to discuss around development processes

- Inaccurate to characterise as a fork, it is a major version upgrade

- /usr/bin/perl can point to v5 for several years

### Todd

- A new major version should be allowed to break stuff.
- /usr/bin/perl7 (with new defaults) along side /usr/bin/perl5 seems sane and distros know how to handle multiple versions of the language.
    - This is not the first time this has been done.
- Module::Compatibility will auto-inject use p5 into CPAN installed modules unless 'use v7' is seen.

### LeoNerd (Paul Evans)

- Switch to V7 is good idea
- Adding 'use v7' is welcome
- Does not support breaking existing code or CPAN
    - Users not warned about change
    - 
- Perl 5 or Perl 7 - fork
    - Divided the community
        - not that I'm saying that this currently *is* a fork (I do not believe it is currently); but simply that if we aren't careful with how we manage things we may end up with a true fork; with different people maintaining 5 vs. pushing 7 forward.
- The issue is that all current code may fail

- Further proposal
    - Perl provides warnings to authors requesting that they 'use version' so it is not a breaking change
    - PAUSE/CPAN should warn the author at upload time that they are missing 'use version'
- Put out a v7 without the changes, add them to Perl 8

### Karl

- Use warnings / strict should be default
- Issue is not 'if' but 'when'
- v7 should be back compat unless use v7 explicit
- Maybe have 1 year notice for the changes
- Either don't break, or give notice of breakage


### Nicolas

- Wants to see the changes to the defaults in v7

- Hard to get Toolchain & language together
- Address CPAN compatibility issues later
- exchange with toolchain to find the best option
- provide patches to upstream cpan distribution
- if needed provide a fork of the distro p7-*


### Sawyer

- This is not a fork, it is a new major version
- Perl 6 is a different case
- 'use version' is becoming the focus, it shouldn't
    - There may be other ways
    - The issue is the defaults
- We need to find better ways to work together
- Some positions are to make zero changes
- Over-sharing may be damaging

# Next meeting agenda

Primary objectives

- How Perl 7
- Make a plan to open `blead`
- Plan next meeting objectives

Further agenda points

- James
    - proposal for future release process
    - How can this change in future, be more flexible
    - James has created proposal document
